# GEOG 458 - Group AA3 Final Project Revision

Our project idea is to create an interactive web map that displays all motor vehicle theft crimes reported to the Seattle Police Department per year from April 2012 to April 2022. This project will allow Seattle residents to become aware of hotspots where motor vehicle theft is more common, subsequently reducing the frequency of occurrences. One negative impact that could occur is that motor vehicle theft hotspots would decrease in the number of visitors and thus businesses in the area would suffer. This can be mitigated by adding a disclaimer that encourages the viewer to use public transportation or be extra cautious about keeping your vehicle secure. 

We are using the dataset from data.seattle.gov titled SPD Crime Data: 2008 till Present–it is important to note that the dataset only includes reports verified by the UCR(Uniform Crime Reporting), a program instituted by the FBI to ensure standards for crime reports across the country. Using the latitude and longitude provided in the dataset, we can use Mapbox to create points that when interacted with can show the specific crime and when it took place. The original dataset also provided the report number, type of crime, startDate, endDate, Offense Parent Group, and Precinct Location, but we will be filtering the Offense Parent Group column for motor vehicle thefts. The target audience is people that are living in Seattle and its surrounding area so that they will be able to gauge which areas of Seattle are prone to motor vehicle theft.

As for multimedia, we plan on adding a variety of sources that can make the crime of motor theft come alive and seem more realistic for the viewers of the web map. Examples such as news articles, posts, and other relevant images regarding motor theft will be included not only in the readme description of the project in the GitHub repository but will also be embedded into the site to provide visual context to the map.
https://www.king5.com/article/news/crime/vehicle-thefts-increased-by-88-percent-washington-state/281-43d3b48d-19d7-4436-8b90-43db2ebf9f8e


For the specific project format, we will be completing option one, or the generic digital geographies project that will be using a proportional symbol map. We will be using the standard 4328 map projection with a starting center of latitude and longitude of  -122 and 47 and a starting zoom level of 11. As for the basemap, we will be using a default choice of Mapbox API such as the “dark-v10” basemap that allows the user to get a simple grasp of the geography around Seattle. For the used visual strategies, we will be creating a raster layer that uses proportional symbols to highlight how much theft is going on in a specific area of Seattle. This layer will be supported by the dataset that includes the location points for each individual theft and will be grouped by census tract within the Seattle area. Finally, for a sense of interaction, we will be using a time slider bar in the top left corner of the map for users to slide based on the year that they wish to see data for. For example, if they wanted to see data for only the year 2018, then they could slide the bar and only symbols for that year from the data would show on the map. This allows for users to easily compare shifts in trends for motor theft.

For the interactivity we would like to have is a time slider like this one https://docs.mapbox.com/mapbox-gl-js/example/timeline-animation/
